Exercises
Provide all code and written answers in a file named algorithms_introduction_answers.txt:

1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

Making coffee;
  FUNCTION makeCoffee
    IF pot is NOT clean
      CLEAN pot
    END IF
    IF no filter in basket
      PUT filter in basket
    END IF
    IF coffee grounds availble < coffee grounds needed
      ADD more coffee grounds
    END IF
    PUT coffee grounds in filter AND filter in basket AND basket in pot
    TURN ON coffee machine to heat
    WHILE coffee is not brewed
      keep brewing coffee
    END WHILE
    POUR cup
    DRINK cup
  END FUNCTION

Washing dishes;
  FUNCTION washDishes
    IF sink not filled up with water
      ADD water
    END IF
    ADD soap to water
    IF water has soap
      FOR each dirty dish
        put dish in sink and wash
      END FOR
    END IF
    FOR each dish thats in sink
      IF dish is clean
        RINSE dish
        DRY dish
        PUT dish away
      END IF
    END FOR
  END FUNCTION

A choice of your own - making a peanut butter sandwich
  FUNCTION 
    IF two slices of bread is available
      ADD peanut butter on bread1
      ADD jelly on bread2
    END IF
    IF bread1 and bread2 both have spread on it
      PRINT peanut butter jelly time!
    END IF
  END FUNCTION


2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?
Answers:
-Spotify: Spotify's algorithm puts together recommended playlists based off of music you've played
-Netflix: Netflix's algorithm produces recommended shows and movies to watch on the top of the list
-McDonald's: McDonald's has found an algorithm to make burgers simple and quick compared to restaurants.

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.
Answer:  An efficient algorithm is something that does not invest too much time to complete.  They avoid redundancy and the space used is being optimized. Inefficient algorithm is the opposite, time and space is not optimized.
